.\"                                                                        
.\"                                                                        
.\"  This file is part of Frama-C.                                         
.\"                                                                        
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2017                                               
.\"    CEA (Commissariat à l'énergie atomique et aux énergies              
.\"         alternatives)                                                  
.\"                                                                        
.\"  you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU   
.\"  Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software       
.\"  Foundation, version 2.1.                                              
.\"                                                                        
.\"  It is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,                 
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of        
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the         
.\"  GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.                   
.\"                                                                        
.\"  See the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1                 
.\"  for more details (enclosed in the file licenses/LGPLv2.1).            
.\"                                                                        
.\"                                                                        

.TH E-ACSL-GCC.SH 1 2016-02-02

.SH NAME
.B e-acsl-gcc.sh
\- instrument and compile C files with E-ACSL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B e-acsl-gcc.sh
[
.I options
]
.I files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B e-acsl-gcc.sh
is a convenience wrapper for instrumentation of C programs using the
\fBE-ACSL\fP \fBFrama-C\fP plugin and their subsequent compilation using
the GNU compiler collection (\fBGCC\fP).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
show a help page.
.TP
.B -c, --compile
compile the generated and the original (supplied) sources.
By default no compilation is performed.
.TP
.B -D, --rt-debug
Enable runtime debug features, i.e., compile unoptimized executable
with assertions and extra checks.
.TP
.B -V, --rt-verbose
Output extra messages when executing generated code
.TP
.B -X, --instrumented-only
Do not compile original code. Has effect only in the presence of the \fI-c\fP
flag.
.TP
.B -C, --compile-only
compile the input files as if they were generated by \fBE-ACSL\fP.
.TP
.B -d, --debug=\fI<N>
pass a value to the \fBFrama-C\fP -\fIdebug\fP option.
By default the -\fIdebug\fP flag is unused.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose=\fI<N>
pass a value to the \fBFrama-C\fP -\fIverbose\fP option.
By default the -\fIverbose\fP flag is unused.
.TP
.B -V, --check
check integrity of the generated AST (mostly useful for developers).
.TP
.B -o, --ocode=\fI<FILE>
output the \fBE-ACSL\fP instrumented code to \fI<FILE>\fP.
Defaults to \fIa.out.frama.c\fP.
.TP
.B -O, --oexec=\fI<FILE>
output the code compiled from the uninstrumented sources to \fI<FILE>\fP.
The executable compiled from the files generated by \fBE-ACSL\fP is
appended the \fI.e.acsl\fP suffix.
Unless specified, the
names of the executables generated from the original
and the modified programs are
\fIa.out\fP and \fIa.out.e-acsl\fP respectively.
.TP
.B --oexec-e-acsl=\fI<FILE>
name of the executable file generated from the \fBE-ACSL\fP-instrumented file.
Unless specified, the executable is named as inidicated by the \fB--oexec\fP option.
.TP
.B -f, --frama-c-only
run input source files through \fBFrama-C\fP without \fBE-ACSL\fP instrumentations.
.TP
.B -E, --extra-cpp-args=\fI<FLAGS>
pass additional arguments to the \fBFrama-C\fP pre-processor.
.TP
.B -L, --frama-c-stdlib
use the \fBFrama-C\fP standard library instead of a system-wide one.
.TP
.B -M, --full-mmodel
maximize memory-related instrumentation.
.TP
.B --temporal
enable checking for temporal memory errors in \\\fBvalid\fP and \\\fBvalid_read\fP predicates.
.TP
.B --weak-validity
enable notion of weak validity. By default expression \fB(p+i)\fP, where \fBp\fP
is a pointer and \fBi\fP is an integer offset is deemed valid if both addresses
\fBp\fP and \fB(p+i)\fP belong to the same allocated block. With weak validity
\fB(p+i)\fP is valid if the memory location which address is given by
expression \fB(p+i)\fP is allocated.
.TP
.B -g, --gmp
always use GMP integers instead of C integral types.
By default the GMP integers are used on as-needed basis.
.TP
.B -l, --ld-flags=\fI<FLAGS>
pass the specified flags to the linker.
.TP
.B -e, --cpp-flags=\fI<FLAGS>
pass the specified flags to the pre-processor at compile-time.
For instrumentation-time pre-processor flags see \fB--extra-cpp-args\fP option.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
suppress any output except for errors and warnings.
.TP
.B -s, --logfile=\fI<FILE>
redirect all output to a given file.
.TP
.B -F, --frama-c-extra=\fI<FLAGS>
pass an extra option to a \fBFrama-C\fP invocation.
.TP
.B -a, --rte=\fI<OPTSTRING>
annotate a source program with assertions using a run of an RTE plugin prior to
E-ACSL. \fIOPTSTRING\fP is a comma-separated string that specifies the types of
generated assertions.
Valid arguments are:

  \fIsigned-overflow\fP   \- signed integer overflows.
  \fIunsigned-overflow\fP \- unsigned integer overflows.
  \fIsigned-downcast\fP   \- signed downcast exceeding destination range.
  \fIunsigned-downcast\fP \- unsigned downcast exceeding destination range.
  \fImem\fP               \- pointer or array accesses.
  \fIfloat-to-int\fP      \- casts from floating-point to integer.
  \fIdiv\fP               \- division by zero.
  \fIshift\fP             \- left and right shifts by a value out of bounds.
  \fpointer-call\fP       \- annotate functions calls through pointers.
  \fIall\fP               \- all of the above.
.TP
.B -A, --rte-select=\fI<OPTSTRING>
Restrict annotations to a given list of functions.
\fIOPTSTRING\fP is a comma-separated string comprising function names.
.TP
.B --stack-size=\fI<NUMBER>
Set the size (in MB) of the stack shadow space
.TP
.B --heap-size=\fI<NUMBER>
Set the size (in MB) of the heap shadow space
.TP
.B -k, --keep-going
Continue execution after an assertion failure
.TP
.B --free-valid-address
Trigger failure if a NULL-pointer is used as an input to free function
.TP
.B --fail-with-code=\fI<NUMBER>
On assertion failure exit with the given integer code intead of raising an abort
signal
.TP
.B -m, --memory-model=\fI<model>
memory model (i.e., a runtime library for checking memory related annotations)
to be linked against the instrumented file.

Valid arguments are:
  \fIbittree\fP     \- memory modelling using a Patricia trie.
  \fIsegment\fP     \- shadow based segment model.

By default the Patricia trie  memory model is used.
.TP
.B --print-models
Print the names of the supported memory models
.TP
.B -I, --frama-c=\fI<FILE>
the name of the \fBFrama-C\fP executable. By default the
first \fIframa-c\fP executable found in the system path is used.
.TP
.B -G, --gcc=\fI<FILE>
the name of the \fBGCC\fP executable. By default the first \fIgcc\fP
executable found in the system path is used.
.TP
.B --then
Separate with a \fB-then\fP the first \fBFrama-C\fP options from the actual
launch of the \fBE-ACSL\fP plugin. Prepends \fB-e-acsl-prepare\fP to the list
of options passed to \fBFrama-C\fP.
.TP
.B --e-acsl-extra=\fI<OPTS>
Adds \fI<OPTS>\fP to the list of options that will be given to the \fBE-ACSL\fP
analysis. Only useful when \fB--then\fP is in use, in which case \fI<OPTS>\fP
will be placed after the \fB-then\fP on \fBFrama-C\fP's command-line. Otherwise,
equivalent to \fB--frama-c-extra\fP
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution
.TP
.B 1
Invalid user input
.TP
.B \fBFrama-C\fP or \fBGCC\fP error code
Instrumentation- or compile-time error

.SH EXAMPLES

.B e-acsl-gcc.sh foo.c

Instrument foo.c and output the instrumented code to \fIa.out.frama.c\fP.

.B e-acsl-gcc.sh -P -c -ogen_foo.c -Ofoo foo.c

Instrument \fIfoo.c\fP, output the instrumented code to \fIgen_foo.c\fP and
compile \fIfoo.c\fP into \fIfoo\fP and \fIgen_foo.c\fP into \fIfoo.e-acsl\fP.
The \fB-P\fP option specifies that the instrumentation should omit debug
functionality.

.B e-acsl-gcc.sh --memory-model=bittree -C gen_foo.c

Assume \fIgen_foo.c\fP has been instrumented by \fBE-ACSL\fP and compile it into
\fIa.out.e-acsl\fP using \fBbittree\fP memory model.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgcc\fP(1), \fBcpp\fP(1), \fBld\fP(1), \fBframa-c\fP(1)
